Codes used for the development of the Fapesp project # 2023/04881-3

"Efeitos da endogamia em linhagens parcialmente endogâmicas de
Eucalyptus spp: uma investigação quantitativa e molecular"

Abstract

Genetic improvement is one of the key tools responsible for the success of forestry in
Brazil, as well as for the productive and capital advances of the planted tree industry.
Although, in the past, selection gains were satisfactory in Eucalyptus spp., in the last
decade, the gains from selection have been lower than those historically obtained. Re-
search suggests that selection strategies that exploit inbreeding—already consolidated in
crops such as rice and maize—can be applied in forest species breeding programs, allow-
ing for the exploitation of complementarity and heterosis. With this in mind, 20 superior
Eucalyptus spp. parent trees from the company Suzano S.A. were self-pollinated, gener-
ating 30 offspring per parent. The 600 individuals were planted in a randomized complete
block design and evaluated for growth traits at 2 and 3 years of age. The 600 individuals
and the 20 parent trees were genotyped using a SNP chip. Therefore, this research is
dedicated to evaluating, in a quantitative and molecular context, the effect of inbreeding
depression in this S0 : 1 population of Eucalyptus spp. Guided by the initial objectives,
this study aimed to: i) investigate the patterns of autozygosity in the population based
on homozygosity-by-descent (HBD) segments; ii) estimate genetic parameters for a self-
pollinated population (S0:1) of Eucalyptus spp.; iii) estimate inbreeding depression at the
family level; and iv) assess the impact of imbalance between the number of selfed and
outcrossed individuals per family on the estimation of inbreeding depression, through the
use of simulation routines that emulate the real dataset. This report aims to present the
progress achieved in these objectives.
